.Dd February 1, 2025
.Dt CYBERD 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm cyberd
.Nd init daemons configuration files
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Daemons configurations file follow an INI-like syntax.
.Pp
They are separated into sections. Three sections are available:
.Sy general ,
.Sy environment
and
.Sy start .
.Pp
All file starts in the
.Sy general
section by default, you can enter a section by writing
.Ic Bq Ar section name
in a line. All following lines will concern this section until another section is specified.
.Pp
Each line which is not a section specification is either a scalar value, or an associative value. Scalar values consist of any line without an '=' character. Whereas assocative values are in the form
.Ic Ar identifier Cm = Ar value .
.Pp
Comments can start anywhere on a line with the '#' character, ending on the end of the line and not impacting the content. Also note associative values, scalar values and section names are trimmed for spaces.
.Sh GENERAL SECTION
.Bl -tag
.It Ic arguments = Ar argument list
Argument list of the process, if not present, the first argument will be the daemon's name. The list is truncated according to spaces.
.It Ic group = Ar name or id
Group name or id of the daemon, defaults to 0.
.It Ic nosid
By default,
.Xr setsid 2
is called for each daemon, setting nosid keeps
.Nm
session.
.It Ic path = Ar absolute path
Path to the daemon executable file,
.Sy MUST
be specified.
.It Ic priority = Ar priority
Priority of the newly created daemon, must be between -20 and 19 inclusive, defaults to 0.
.It Ic sigfinish = Ar signal name or number
Signal used to terminate the daemon, defaults to SIGTERM.
.It Ic sigreload = Ar signal name or number
Signal used to reload the daemon's configuration, defaults to SIGHUP.
.It Ic stdin = Ar absolute path
Absolute path of a file opened read-only as stdin, defaults to /dev/null.
.It Ic stdout = Ar absolute path
Absolute path of a file opened write-only
.Pq no truncate, append nor creat
as stdout, defaults to /dev/null.
.It Ic stderr = Ar absolute path
Absolute path of a file opened write-only
.Pq no truncate, append nor creat
as stderr, if not specified, stderr is a
.Xr dup 2
of stdout.
.It Ic umask = Ar octal numeric value
umask of the daemon, defaults to
.Nm
one
.Pq 022 .
.It Ic user = Ar name or id
User name or id of the daemon, defaults to 0.
.It Ic workdir = Ar absolute path
Where the daemon will be executed
.Pq Xr chdir 2
defaults to /.
.Sh START SECTION
.Bl -tag
.It Ic any exit
Start the daemon when the daemon exited in any way.
.It Ic dumped
Start the daemon when the daemon dumped core.
.It Ic exit failure
Start the daemon when the daemon exited with
.Xr _exit 2
with an exit code not equal to 0.
.It Ic exit success
Start the daemon when the daemon exited with
.Xr _exit 2
with exit code 0.
.It Ic exit
Start the daemon when the daemon exited with
.Xr _exit 2 .
.It Ic killed
Start the daemon when the daemon was killed by a signal.
.It Ic load
Start the daemon when
.Nm
is starting.
.It Ic reload
Start the daemon when
.Nm
is reloading its configuration.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT SECTION
The environment section is composed of associated values, any scalar value will be expanded to an associative value with itself, and will compose the daemon's environment variables.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr cyberctl 1 , Xr chdir 2 , Xr _exit 2 , Xr umask 2 , Xr setsid 2 , Xr isspace 3 , Xr signal 7 , Xr cyberd 8 .
.Sh AUTHORS
Written by
.An Valentin Debon Aq Mt valentin.debon@heylelos.org .
