.TH cyberd 5 2019-10-20 HeylelOS
.SH NAME
.PP
cyberd - Cyberd init daemons configuration files
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Cyberd daemons configurations file follow an INI-like syntax.
.PP
They are separated into sections. Three sections are available: general, environment and start.
.PP
All file starts in the general section by default, you can enter a section by writing [<section name>] in a line.All following lines will concern this section until another section is specified.
.PP
Each line which is not a section specification is either a scalar value, or an associative value. Scalar values consist of any line without an '=' character.Whereas assocative values are in the form <identifier>=<value>.
.PP
Comments can start anywhere on a line with the '#' character, ending on the end of the line and not impacting the content.Also note associative values, scalar values and section names are trimmed for spaces.
.SH GENERAL
.PP
path=<absolute path>: Path to the daemon executable file, MUST be specified.
.PP
workdir=<absolute path>: Where the daemon will be executed (chdir()'d). Default none, executed in cyberd's current working directory.
.PP
user=<name|id>: User name/id of the daemon.
.PP
group=<name|id>: Group name/id of the daemon.
.PP
umask=<octal numeric value>: umask of the daemon, default to cyberd's one (022).
.PP
sigfinish=<signal name|signal number>: Signal used to terminate the daemon.
.PP
sigreload=<signal name|signal number>: Signal used to reload the daemon's configuration.
.PP
arguments=<argument list>: Argument list of the process, if not present, the first argument will be the daemon's name. The list is truncated according to spaces.
.PP
priority=<priority>: Priority of the newly created daemon, must be between -20 and 19 inclusive, default to 0.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
The environment section is composed of associated values, any scalar value will be expanded to an associative value with itself, and will compose the daemon's environment variables.
.SH START
.PP
load: Start the daemon when cyberd is starting.
.PP
reload: Start the daemon when cyberd is reloading its configuration.
.PP
any exit: Start the daemon when the daemon exited in any way.
.PP
exit: Start the daemon when the daemon exited with _exit(2).
.PP
exit success: Start the daemon when the daemon exited with _exit(2) with exit code 0.
.PP
exit failure: Start the daemon when the daemon exited with _exit(2) with an exit code not equal to 0.
.PP
killed: Start the daemon when the daemon was killed by a signal.
.PP
dumped: Start the daemon when the daemon dumped core.
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Valentin Debon (valentin.debon@heylelos.org)
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
cyberctl(1), cyberd(8), isspace(3), chdir(2), umask(2), signal(7).
